# Translation Introduction

In order to allow our non-native English speaking users to have the best experience, we translate the app into several 
other languages.

When creating new features or changing code, we need to be aware of any strings that will need translation.



## Framework

We use [angular-gettext](http://angular-gettext.rocketeer.be/) for our translations. This library can handle a bulk of 
the pain points in translating strings. The library will:

- Extract strings from the source with a grunt task
- Compile the strings into a JS file ready for use

If you want to know the full details about it, you can read their short documentation in their 
[developer guide](http://angular-gettext.rocketeer.be/dev-guide/)

## Setup

Besides angular-gettext, GNU gettext is also used to automate some steps of updating the language (PO) files. To 
install gettext first, setup the project as described in the 
main projects README.md. Next, install gettext using Homebrew:

    brew install gettext

You may need to force link it:

    brew link gettext --force
    
If needed you can always unlink later with:

    brew unlink gettext
    
Also, in order to minimize the number of translations that need to be sent to the translator, the dealer-portal and
mobile-apps projects will use one another to find existing translations to use. For this to work properly, the
projects need to be setup in the same directory as one another with the default git name for the repos.
    
## Testing

When in your local environment, we put angular-gettext into debug mode. This will surround any missing strings with two 
underscores: _\_\_Example String\_\__. If you see text like this, you know that it is missing a translation for your 
current language.
